Disarray:
    If people or things are in disarray, they are disorganized and confused.
        The nation is in disarray following rioting led by the military. 
    If things or places are in disarray, they are in a very disorganized state.
        She was left lying on her side and her clothes were in disarray. 
        Synonyms: untidiness, state, mess, chaos   More Synonyms of disarray

    the state of being confused and having no organization or of being messy:
        Ever since the oil crisis, the industry has been in (a state of) disarray.
        The news had thrown his plans into disarray.
        Her clothes were in disarray.

    1.  to throw into disorder or confusion; upset
    2.  Archaic to undress 
        
    NOUN    3.  an untidy condition; disorder; confusion
            4.  a state of disorderly or insufficient dress

Rogue:
    behaving in ways that are not expected or not normal, often in a harmful way:
        There have been rogue firms in the past which have ripped customers off.
        a rogue state

    a person, organization, or country that does not behave in the usual or acceptable way:
        Buzzy’s a fun-loving teenage rogue.

        adjective [ not gradable ] US  /roʊɡ/
            A rogue employee might tap into the computer.

    a person who behaves badly but who you still like:
        "Come here, you little rogue!" chuckled my uncle.
        The women all think he's a lovable old rogue.

    to start behaving in a way that is not normal or expected, especially by leaving your group and doing something dangerous:
        A Special Forces unit had gone rogue and was trying to free the hostage.
        Her latest novel is about an undercover government agent who appears to have gone rogue.
        But this is not your standard 'cop goes rogue' movie.
        The party leader had accused her of going rogue.
        One of the circus elephants went rogue and trampled several large props.

Mutt:
    a person who behaves in a silly or careless way:
        Come on you mutts, play harder!
    
    a mongrel

Mongrel:

    a dog whose parents are of different breeds
    used to describe something of mixed origin:
        Some people call English a mongrel language because it is a mixture of old German and French.
    
    NOUN
        1.  an animal or plant produced by the crossing of different breeds or varieties; esp., a dog of this kind
        2.  anything produced by indiscriminate mixture
    ADJECTIVE
        3.  of mixed breed, race, origin, or character often a contemptuous or derogatory usage

    1. a dog of mixed or indeterminate breed
    2. any animal or plant resulting from the crossing of different breeds or varieties
    3. any cross between different things, esp. if inharmonious or indiscriminate

    1  MONGREL [Adjective]دوغلا ۔ دو نسلی ۔ جس کی نسل ایک نہ ہو ۔  
    2  MONGREL [Noun]دوغلا ۔ دونسلا ۔ مَخلُوط النسل  
    3  MONGREL [Adjective]مونگریل ۔ دو نسلا ۔ دو غلا ۔ بالخصوص ایسا کتا جو دو نسلوں کے ملاپ سے پیدا ہوتا ہے ۔ 
    4  MONGREL [Noun]بدنسلا کتا ، دوغلا ، مخلوط النسل ، آدھا تیتر آدھا بٹیر ۔  
    5  MONGRELISM [Noun]دوغلے پن کی حرکت ۔

Pidgin:
    a language that has developed from a mixture of two languages. It is used as a way of communicating by people who do not speak each other's languages.

    nglish, French, etc. when it is spoken in a simple way by someone who does not speak that language well:
        "He come here?" he asked in pidgin English.

Synagogue
    a building in which Jewish people worship and study their religion
    Compare
        temple
    a building in which people of the Jewish religion worship and study

Indiscriminate:
    not showing careful choice or planning, especially so that harm results:
        an indiscriminate terrorist attack on civilians
        The indiscriminate use of fertilizers can cause long-term problems.

    not showing careful thought or planning:
        Cancer is completely indiscriminate in whom it strikes.

Words like "organic" and "natural" are used so indiscriminately that they are often meaningless.

1  INDISCRIMINATE [Adjective]بلاامتیاز ۔ بلا تفریق ۔ بے شعور ۔ بے اصول ۔ 
2  INDISCRIMINATE []گڈ مڈ ، غلط ملط ۔ 
3  INDISCRIMINATE [Adjective]بے اِمتیاز ۔ غیر اِمتیازی ۔ بے ربط ۔ بے ترتیب ۔ بے قید ۔  
4  INDISCRIMINATE [Adverb]اندھا دھند ۔ بلا امتیاز ۔ بلا تمیز ۔ بلا تفریق ۔ 
5  INDISCRIMINATELY [Adverb]بِلا تَمیز ۔ غیر اِمتیازی طور پر ۔ بے ربطی سے ۔ اندھا دُھند ۔  

Pop on:
    pop something on (British English, informal) ​to put on a piece of clothing. I'll just pop on a sweater and meet you outside

Faux:
    not real, but made to look or seem real:
        faux fur    
        a faux-brick wall
    Synonyms - fake,false,imitation

faux pas:
    words or behavior that are a social mistake or not polite:
        make a faux pas I made some remark about his wife's family, and then realized I'd made a serious faux pas.
    Synonyms - gaffe slip

    a remark or action in a social situation that is a mistake and causes embarrassment or offense:
        She made the faux pas of referring to Wales as “part of England.”

do a double take:


    to look at someone or something and then look again because you suddenly recognize him, her, or it or notice that something unusual is happening:
        I did a double take - I couldn't believe it was her.
Double Take:
    a delayed reaction to something unexpected, immediately after one's first reaction.
        "Tony glanced at her, then did a double take"

    a delayed surprised reaction at seeing someone or something:
        With her hair cut short and dyed red, I did a double take at first.
Lay off:
	discharge a worker because of economic conditions or shortage of work.
	"the company has laid off 30 percent of its staff"
	Similar:
	dismiss, let go, discharge, give notice to, pay off, release, make redundant, sack, give someone the sack, fire, send packing, give someone the boot, give someone the bullet, give someone the push, boot out, give someone their cards, Opposite:
	 take on, hire

	2. INFORMAL
	give up or stop doing something.
	"I laid off smoking for seven years"

	Similar:
	give up, stop, refrain from, abstain from, not continue, desist from, leave alone, cut out, quit, pack in, leave off, kick, give over, knock off

	Opposite:
	start, take up

3. SOCCER
	pass the ball to a teammate.
	"Jules laid the ball off to the striker"
	4. paint the final layer on a wall or other surface.
	"lay off the paint with very light brush strokes"
	5. (of a bookmaker) insure against a loss resulting from a large bet by placing a similar bet with another bookmaker.
	"the only way the dividends could possibly make sense was if the bookmaker had laid off the bet"


supple, nimble
high-sounding, high-flown, pretentious
FINAGLE 
	to get or achieve something by guile, trickery, or manipulation.
	to soften; to ease, or lessen.
	to entertain with something that delights.
----------------------------------------------------
What does TOOTHSOME mean?
	appealing to the mind or to reason; convincing.
	biting; caustic; sarcastic.
	pleasing to the taste; palatable.
	
----------------------------------------------------
Spar:
	verb: spar; 3rd person present: spars; past tense: sparred; past participle: sparred; gerund or present participle: sparring
	
	make the motions of boxing without landing heavy blows, as a form of training.
		"one contestant broke his nose while sparring"
	
	engage in argument, typically of a kind that is prolonged or repeated but not violent.
		"mother and daughter spar regularly over drink, drugs, and career"
	
	Similar: quarrel, argue, have a row/fight, row, fight, disagree, fail to agree, differ, be at odds, have a misunderstanding, be at variance, fall out, dispute, squabble, brawl, bicker, chop logic, wrangle, bandy words, cross swords, lock horns, be at each other's throats, be at loggerheads, scrap, argufy, spat, have a spat, altercate
	
	(of a gamecock) fight with the feet or spurs.

	noun: spar; plural noun: spars
	1. a period or bout of sparring.
	
	2. INFORMAL a close friend.
		"Buster was his spar and he didn't want to let him down"
		
		
Let Alone:
	used to indicate that something is far less likely, possible, or suitable than something else already mentioned.
		"he was incapable of leading a bowling team, let alone a country"
		
		
Stint:
	verb
	supply an ungenerous or inadequate amount of (something).
		"stowage room hasn't been stinted"

	noun 
	1. a person's fixed or allotted period of work.
		"his varied career included a stint as a magician"

	Similar: spell,stretch,period,time,turn,run,session,term,shift,tour of duty,watch

	2. limitation of supply or effort.
		"a collector with an eye for quality and the means to indulge it without stint"
		
wretched:
	1. ADJECTIVE [ADJ n]
		You use wretched to describe someone or something that you dislike or feel angry with.
	[informal, feelings]
		Wretched woman, he thought, why the hell can't she wait? 
	2. ADJECTIVE
		Someone who feels wretched feels very unhappy.
	[formal]
		I feel really confused and wretched. 
		Synonyms: unhappy, depressed, distressed, miserable   More Synonyms of wretched
		
	ADJECTIVE
		1.  deeply distressed or unhappy; miserable; unfortunate
		2.  characterized by or causing distress or misery; dismal
			wretched slums
		3.  poor in quality; very inferior
			a wretched meal
		4.  contemptible; despicable
		
Slay:
	slew, slain
		Albert Bowers, 18, Henry Long, 19, and Jessie Cole, 18, were last week cleared of murder much to the slain cop's family's dismay.
	
	kill (a person or animal) in a violent way.
		"St. George slew the dragon"	
	greatly impress or amuse (someone).
		"you slay me, you really do"

	INFORMAL
		greatly impress or amuse (someone).
			"you slay me, you really do"
	Similar: amuse greatly,convulse with mirth/laughter,entertain greatly,make someone laugh,make someone crack up,kill,knock dead,be the death of,wow,be a hit with,crease up
		be extremely impressive, stylish, or successful.
			"she slayed in a jumpsuit"
			
Lunge:
	to move forward suddenly and with force, especially in order to attack someone:
		He suddenly lunged at her with a broken bottle.
		
	a sudden forward movement:
		He made a lunge for the ball.
	 
	an exercise in which you step forward with one leg and bend your knees:
		They were doing squats and lunges.
		
Back down:
	withdraw a claim or assertion in the face of opposition.
		"the contenders backed down from their original pledge"
	an act of backing down.
		"ministers have avoided sounding triumphal about the association's backdown"		
Spruce:
	LANGUAGE NOTE:  
		Spruce is both the singular and the plural form.
	1. VARIABLE NOUN
	A spruce is a kind of evergreen tree.
		Trees such as spruce, pine, and oak have been planted. 
		...a young blue spruce. 
	2. ADJECTIVE
		Someone who is spruce is very neat and clean in appearance.
			Chris was looking spruce in his stiff-collared black shirt and new short hair cut. 
		Synonyms: smart, trim, neat, elegant   More Synonyms of spruce
		
		an evergreen tree (= one that never loses its leaves) with leaves like needles, or the pale-colored wood from this tree
		(of a person) tidy and clean in appearance:
			He looked spruce and handsome in a clean white shirt.
Spruce up:
	If something is spruced up, its appearance is improved. If someone is spruced up, they have made themselves look very smart.
Gratitude:
	a strong feeling of appreciation to someone or something for what the person has done to help you:
		Many of his patients gave works of art to Dr. Klein in gratitude.

	These are words often used in combination with gratitude.
	debt of gratitude:
		I owe a debt of gratitude to my many language consultants over the years for their help in understanding tone and reduplication in their languages.
	
	deep gratitude:
		I would like to express my deep gratitude to them both for their permission.
	
	expression of gratitude:
		His speech was a brief expression of gratitude to the organisers.
		
Two-timing Someone:

	to deceive someone you are having a relationship with by having a secret sexual relationship with someone else at the same time:
		I ended the relationship when I found out he was two-timing me.
		It was only after I’d finished with him that I learned he had been two-timing me all along.
		
Let someone down:
	to disappoint someone by failing to do what you agreed to do or were expected to do:
		You will be there tomorrow - you won't let me down, will you?
		When I was sent to prison, I really felt I had let my parents down.
